In our application we got pretty far, this whole authentication flow is working but there's one issue that's
super hard to spot,
you can only spot it if you really let your token expire and don't reload
the app. And you say you sit there, your app is somehow open or in the background so it wasn't killed and then
you try to share a place and the token is expired,
all of a sudden you will get an error because you never tried to get the token from async storage because
we have to think about one thing that happens in auth get token,
first of all we try to get the token from our state and only if that is null only then we enter this
whole
I want to fetch something from storage store here.
Before that, this never happens,
so before this event, we never tried to get the token and we never therefore check the expiration date,
we never therefore try to use the refresh token,
instead what happens is we end up here and we just resolve the token we got from the state, from the redux
store.
Now the problem with that is if we get the token from the redux store, that token is our normal token that
also might have expired after one hour,
so therefore we get this, we don't see that it is invalid,
we use it and we get an error. To fix this,
the simplest way is to simply store the expiration date in redux too,
so whenever we try authenticating and in the end, we then store our data in redux,
so whenever we call auth set token, we not only want to pass the token but also the expiration date,
then we can store that in redux
and here where we checked if we don't have a token, we should then not only check if we don't have
a token but also if we might have a token but it is expired. So to do that, what I'll first of all do is when
we get the token, here auth store token, we pass the expiration time already or the time until it expires.
Now there we call auth set token and I actually want to pass the date when it expires to that function,
to this action,
therefore I'll quickly calculate it and we already have code to calculate our expiration date
right,
we got it here.
So I can simply use that by getting my dispatch action here after that, so after I calculated the expiration
date and then I also pass the expiry date to my auth set token action creator, there
I then not only expect the token but also the expiry date of course because we just added it,
we just made sure that we receive it and therefore we forward this, so expiry date is now also part of the
payload.
Then we can go to our auth reducer and there, in set token, I will set another part of that state which
I add in the initial state too, the expiry date which I set to null, here I will set it to action expiry
date and in auth remove token, I'll set it to null again,
so now we manage that in our redux store too. Back in the auth action creator,
we can now take advantage of that in auth get token, here
we can also get the expiry date, we get this from get state auth expiry date and that is either null or a
date. Now here where we check if we don't have a token, well I also want to enter this part if we don't
have a token or if expiry date is smaller or equal to new date which is the current date,
however keep in mind expiry date as we calculate it is not a date time object,
so we actually need to wrap it, just as we do this in other places too here where we have new date. Now
we don't need to parse it in our case now because we're not extracting it from some string storage like
the async storage but I still will need to wrap it with new date to turn it into a date object
and with that I'm comparing if the expiry date is smaller than our current date which essentially means
ok the token did expire because the expiration date is in the past.
And then of course I want to access this part where I try to get the token from my storage and there
I might find it
but there we then also have the check for the expiration date where it should also fail and where we then
would also try to get a refresh token.
Now to try this out, I'll temporarily switch expiry date back to 20 seconds here
and I want to uninstall the Android app for now
and then simply rerun npm run android to rebuild it to really start with a fresh app where nothing is
in storage.
Now I first of all again want to connect this to my debugger because I reinstalled it, I have to re-trigger
this and then I will login here and now I just want to wait, to wait until the token probably expired,
so wait 20 seconds
and thereafter I want to try something where I need the token.
Maybe find places, visit a place
and now let's try to delete it
and there we now see a refresh token work then we're done.
So it worked but obviously it worked with the help of the refresh token,
so if I reload twice and I find places here, I don't find places because I delete it all
but what you also see here is nowhere in the log do you see something about the refresh token
because I reloaded within the 22nd period, we had an updated token in the store therefore and hence no
need to refresh again.
And with that, we fixed this error,
now I'll turn this back to expiresIn and not the hardcoded 20 seconds,
it shows us now that even if we never reloaded
the app,
if the token expires in the background, we can recover from that
and that was one important addition to make sure the app really works the way it should work.